Administration
Information for Lemmy instance admins, and those who want to run a server.

If you have any problems in the installation, you can ask for help in !lemmy_support or Matrix. Do not open Github issues for support.

Install
Official/Supported methods
Lemmy has two primary installation methods:

Manually with Docker
Automated with Ansible
We recommend using Ansible, because it simplifies the installation and also makes updating easier.

Lemmy uses roughly 150 MB of RAM in the default Docker installation. CPU usage is negligible.

Managed Hostings
Elestio
K&T Host
Other installation methods
⚠️ Under your own risk.

In some cases, it might be necessary to use different installation methods.

From Scratch
YunoHost (source code)
On Amazon Web Services (AWS)
Nomad (see this external repo for examples)
You could use any other reverse proxy
An Example Caddy configuration.

Lemmy components
Lemmy-ui
Lemmy-ui is the main frontend for Lemmy. It consists of an expressjs based server-side process (necessary for SSR) and client code which run in the browser. It does not use a lot of resources and will happily run on quite low powered servers.

Lemmy_server
Lemmy_server is the backend process, which handles:

Incoming HTTP requests (both from Lemmy clients and incoming federation from other servers)
Outgoing federation
Scheduled tasks (most notably, constant hot rank calculations, which keep the front page fresh)
Pict-rs
Pict-rs is a service which does image processing. It handles user-uploaded images as well as downloading thumbnails for external images.